docs/cli-options.rst, before:

.. _command-line-options:

Command Line Options
====================

Instaloader is invoked with::

   $ instaloader [options] target [target ...]

where ``target`` is a ``profile``, a ``"#hashtag"``, ``@profile`` (all profiles
that *profile* is following), ``%location ID``, or if logged in ``:feed`` (pictures from your
feed), ``:stories`` (stories of your followees) or ``:saved`` (collection of
posts marked as saved).

Here we explain the additional options that can be given to Instaloader to
customize its behavior.  For an
introduction on how to use Instaloader, see
:ref:`download-pictures-from-instagram`.

To get a list of all flags, their abbreviations and
their descriptions, you may also run::

   instaloader --help

Targets
^^^^^^^

Specify a list of targets. For each of these, Instaloader creates a folder and
stores all posts along with the pictures's captions there.

.. include:: basic-usage.rst
   :start-after: targets-start
   :end-before: targets-end

- ``filename.json[.xz]``
   Re-Download the given object

- ``+args.txt``
   Read targets (and options) from given text file. See :option:`+args.txt`.

What to Download of each Post
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --no-pictures

   Do not download post pictures. Cannot be used together with
   :option:`--fast-update`. Implies :option:`--no-video-thumbnails`, does not
   imply :option:`--no-videos`.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --no-videos, -V

   Do not download videos.

.. option:: --no-video-thumbnails

   Do not download thumbnails of videos.

.. option:: --geotags, -G

   Download geotags when available. Geotags are stored as a text file with
   the location's name and a Google Maps link. This requires an additional
   request to the Instagram server for each picture. Requires :option:`--login`.

.. option:: --comments, -C

   Download and update comments for each post. This requires an additional
   request to the Instagram server for each post, which is why it is disabled by
   default.

.. option:: --no-captions

   Do not create txt files.

.. option:: --post-metadata-txt

   Template to write in txt file for each Post. See :ref:`metadata-text-files`.

.. option:: --storyitem-metadata-txt

   Template to write in txt file for each StoryItem. See
   :ref:`metadata-text-files`.

.. option:: --no-metadata-json

   Do not create a JSON file containing the metadata of each post.

.. option:: --no-compress-json

   Do not xz compress JSON files, rather create pretty formatted JSONs.


What to Download of each Profile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --no-posts

   Do not download regular posts.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --no-profile-pic

   Do not download profile picture.

.. option:: --stories, -s

   Also download stories of each profile that is downloaded. Requires
   :option:`--login`.

.. option:: --highlights

   Also download highlights of each profile that is downloaded. Requires
   :option:`--login`.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --tagged

   Also download posts where each profile is tagged.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --igtv

   Also download IGTV videos.

   .. versionadded:: 4.3

Which Posts to Download
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --fast-update, -F

   For each target, stop when encountering the first already-downloaded picture.
   This flag is recommended when you use Instaloader to update your personal
   Instagram archive.

.. option:: --post-filter filter, --only-if filter

   Expression that, if given, must evaluate to True for each post to be
   downloaded.  Must be a syntactically valid Python expression. Variables are
   evaluated to :class:`instaloader.Post` attributes.  Example:
   ``--post-filter=viewer_has_liked``. See :ref:`filter-posts` for more
   examples.

.. option:: --storyitem-filter filter

   Expression that, if given, must evaluate to True for each storyitem to be
   downloaded.  Must be a syntactically valid Python expression. Variables are
   evaluated to :class:`instaloader.StoryItem` attributes.
   See :ref:`filter-posts` for more examples.

.. option:: --count COUNT, -c

   Do not attempt to download more than COUNT posts.  Applies only to
   ``#hashtag``, ``%location id``, and ``:feed``.


Login (Download Private Profiles)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Instaloader can login to Instagram. This allows downloading private
profiles. To login, pass the :option:`--login` option. Your session cookie (not your
password!) will be saved to a local file to be reused next time you want
Instaloader to login.

.. option:: --login YOUR-USERNAME, -l YOUR-USERNAME

   Login name (profile name) for your Instagram account.

.. option:: --sessionfile SESSIONFILE, -f SESSIONFILE

   Path for loading and storing session key file.  Defaults to
   ``~/.config/instaloader/session-YOUR-USERNAME``.

.. option:: --password YOUR-PASSWORD, -p YOUR-PASSWORD

   Password for your Instagram account.  Without this option, you'll be prompted
   for your password interactively if there is not yet a valid session file.

   .. warning:: Using :option:`--password` option is discouraged for security
      reasons.  Enter your password interactively when asked, or use the
      sessionfile feature (:option:`--sessionfile` to customize path).

How to Download
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --dirname-pattern DIRNAME_PATTERN

   Name of directory where to store posts. ``{profile}`` is replaced by the
   profile name, ``{target}`` is replaced by the target you specified, i.e.
   either ``:feed``, ``#hashtag`` or the profile name. Defaults to ``{target}``.
   See :ref:`filename-specification`.

.. option:: --filename-pattern FILENAME_PATTERN

   Prefix of filenames, relative to the directory given with
   :option:`--dirname-pattern`. ``{profile}`` is replaced by the profile name,
   ``{target}`` is replaced by the target you specified, i.e.  either ``:feed``,
   ``#hashtag`` or the profile name. Defaults to ``{date_utc}_UTC``.
   See :ref:`filename-specification` for a list of supported tokens.

.. option:: --resume-prefix prefix

   For many targets, Instaloader is capable of resuming a previously-aborted
   download loop.  To do so, it creates a JSON file within the target directory
   when interrupted.  This option controls the prefix for filenames that are
   used to save the information to resume an interrupted download.  The default
   prefix is ``iterator``.

   Resuming an interrupted download is supported for most, but not all targets.
   JSON files with resume information are always compressed, regardless of
   :option:`--no-compress-json`.

   This feature is turned off entirely with :option:`--no-resume`.

   .. versionadded:: 4.5

.. option:: --no-resume

   Do not resume a previously-aborted download iteration, and do not save such
   information when interrupted.

   .. versionadded:: 4.5

.. option:: --user-agent USER_AGENT

   User Agent to use for HTTP requests. Per default, Instaloader pretends being
   Chrome/51.

.. option:: --max-connection-attempts N

   Maximum number of connection attempts until a request is aborted. Defaults
   to ``3``. If a connection fails, it can be manually skipped by hitting
   :kbd:`Control-c`. Set this to ``0`` to retry infinitely.

.. option:: --request-timeout N

   Seconds to wait before timing out a connection request. Defaults to 300.

   .. versionadded:: 4.3

   .. versionchanged:: 4.6
      Enabled this option by default with a timeout of 300 seconds.

Miscellaneous Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --quiet, -q

   Disable user interaction, i.e. do not print messages (except errors) and fail
   if login credentials are needed but not given.
   This is handy for running :ref:`instaloader-as-cronjob`.

.. option:: +args.txt

   Read arguments from file `args.txt`, a shortcut to provide arguments from
   file rather than command-line. This provides a convenient way to hide login
   info from CLI, and can also be used to simplify management of long arguments.

   .. note::

      Text file should separate arguments with line breaks.

   args.txt example::

      --login=MYUSERNAME
      --password=MYPASSWORD
      --fast-update
      profile1
      profile2

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

Commit message:

Set the modification dates of already downloaded files to the post's date. This is handy for updating backups downloaded with erroneous tools.

docs/cli-options.rst, after:

.. _command-line-options:

Command Line Options
====================

Instaloader is invoked with::

   $ instaloader [options] target [target ...]

where ``target`` is a ``profile``, a ``"#hashtag"``, ``@profile`` (all profiles
that *profile* is following), ``%location ID``, or if logged in ``:feed`` (pictures from your
feed), ``:stories`` (stories of your followees) or ``:saved`` (collection of
posts marked as saved).

Here we explain the additional options that can be given to Instaloader to
customize its behavior.  For an
introduction on how to use Instaloader, see
:ref:`download-pictures-from-instagram`.

To get a list of all flags, their abbreviations and
their descriptions, you may also run::

   instaloader --help

Targets
^^^^^^^

Specify a list of targets. For each of these, Instaloader creates a folder and
stores all posts along with the pictures's captions there.

.. include:: basic-usage.rst
   :start-after: targets-start
   :end-before: targets-end

- ``filename.json[.xz]``
   Re-Download the given object

- ``+args.txt``
   Read targets (and options) from given text file. See :option:`+args.txt`.

What to Download of each Post
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --no-pictures

   Do not download post pictures. Cannot be used together with
   :option:`--fast-update`. Implies :option:`--no-video-thumbnails`, does not
   imply :option:`--no-videos`.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --no-videos, -V

   Do not download videos.

.. option:: --no-video-thumbnails

   Do not download thumbnails of videos.

.. option:: --geotags, -G

   Download geotags when available. Geotags are stored as a text file with
   the location's name and a Google Maps link. This requires an additional
   request to the Instagram server for each picture. Requires :option:`--login`.

.. option:: --comments, -C

   Download and update comments for each post. This requires an additional
   request to the Instagram server for each post, which is why it is disabled by
   default.

.. option:: --no-captions

   Do not create txt files.

.. option:: --post-metadata-txt

   Template to write in txt file for each Post. See :ref:`metadata-text-files`.

.. option:: --storyitem-metadata-txt

   Template to write in txt file for each StoryItem. See
   :ref:`metadata-text-files`.

.. option:: --no-metadata-json

   Do not create a JSON file containing the metadata of each post.

.. option:: --no-compress-json

   Do not xz compress JSON files, rather create pretty formatted JSONs.


What to Download of each Profile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --no-posts

   Do not download regular posts.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --no-profile-pic

   Do not download profile picture.

.. option:: --stories, -s

   Also download stories of each profile that is downloaded. Requires
   :option:`--login`.

.. option:: --highlights

   Also download highlights of each profile that is downloaded. Requires
   :option:`--login`.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --tagged

   Also download posts where each profile is tagged.

   .. versionadded:: 4.1

.. option:: --igtv

   Also download IGTV videos.

   .. versionadded:: 4.3

Which Posts to Download
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --fast-update, -F

   For each target, stop when encountering the first already-downloaded picture.
   This flag is recommended when you use Instaloader to update your personal
   Instagram archive.

.. option:: --post-filter filter, --only-if filter

   Expression that, if given, must evaluate to True for each post to be
   downloaded.  Must be a syntactically valid Python expression. Variables are
   evaluated to :class:`instaloader.Post` attributes.  Example:
   ``--post-filter=viewer_has_liked``. See :ref:`filter-posts` for more
   examples.

.. option:: --storyitem-filter filter

   Expression that, if given, must evaluate to True for each storyitem to be
   downloaded.  Must be a syntactically valid Python expression. Variables are
   evaluated to :class:`instaloader.StoryItem` attributes.
   See :ref:`filter-posts` for more examples.

.. option:: --count COUNT, -c

   Do not attempt to download more than COUNT posts.  Applies only to
   ``#hashtag``, ``%location id``, and ``:feed``.


Login (Download Private Profiles)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Instaloader can login to Instagram. This allows downloading private
profiles. To login, pass the :option:`--login` option. Your session cookie (not your
password!) will be saved to a local file to be reused next time you want
Instaloader to login.

.. option:: --login YOUR-USERNAME, -l YOUR-USERNAME

   Login name (profile name) for your Instagram account.

.. option:: --sessionfile SESSIONFILE, -f SESSIONFILE

   Path for loading and storing session key file.  Defaults to
   ``~/.config/instaloader/session-YOUR-USERNAME``.

.. option:: --password YOUR-PASSWORD, -p YOUR-PASSWORD

   Password for your Instagram account.  Without this option, you'll be prompted
   for your password interactively if there is not yet a valid session file.

   .. warning:: Using :option:`--password` option is discouraged for security
      reasons.  Enter your password interactively when asked, or use the
      sessionfile feature (:option:`--sessionfile` to customize path).

How to Download
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --dirname-pattern DIRNAME_PATTERN

   Name of directory where to store posts. ``{profile}`` is replaced by the
   profile name, ``{target}`` is replaced by the target you specified, i.e.
   either ``:feed``, ``#hashtag`` or the profile name. Defaults to ``{target}``.
   See :ref:`filename-specification`.

.. option:: --filename-pattern FILENAME_PATTERN

   Prefix of filenames, relative to the directory given with
   :option:`--dirname-pattern`. ``{profile}`` is replaced by the profile name,
   ``{target}`` is replaced by the target you specified, i.e.  either ``:feed``,
   ``#hashtag`` or the profile name. Defaults to ``{date_utc}_UTC``.
   See :ref:`filename-specification` for a list of supported tokens.

.. option:: --resume-prefix prefix

   For many targets, Instaloader is capable of resuming a previously-aborted
   download loop.  To do so, it creates a JSON file within the target directory
   when interrupted.  This option controls the prefix for filenames that are
   used to save the information to resume an interrupted download.  The default
   prefix is ``iterator``.

   Resuming an interrupted download is supported for most, but not all targets.
   JSON files with resume information are always compressed, regardless of
   :option:`--no-compress-json`.

   This feature is turned off entirely with :option:`--no-resume`.

   .. versionadded:: 4.5

.. option:: --no-resume

   Do not resume a previously-aborted download iteration, and do not save such
   information when interrupted.

   .. versionadded:: 4.5

.. option:: --user-agent USER_AGENT

   User Agent to use for HTTP requests. Per default, Instaloader pretends being
   Chrome/51.

.. option:: --max-connection-attempts N

   Maximum number of connection attempts until a request is aborted. Defaults
   to ``3``. If a connection fails, it can be manually skipped by hitting
   :kbd:`Control-c`. Set this to ``0`` to retry infinitely.

.. option:: --request-timeout N

   Seconds to wait before timing out a connection request. Defaults to 300.

   .. versionadded:: 4.3

   .. versionchanged:: 4.6
      Enabled this option by default with a timeout of 300 seconds.

Miscellaneous Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. option:: --quiet, -q

   Disable user interaction, i.e. do not print messages (except errors) and fail
   if login credentials are needed but not given.
   This is handy for running :ref:`instaloader-as-cronjob`.

   option:: --correct-timestamps

   Set the modification dates of already downloaded files to the post's date.
   This is handy for updating backups downloaded with erroneous tools.

.. option:: +args.txt

   Read arguments from file `args.txt`, a shortcut to provide arguments from
   file rather than command-line. This provides a convenient way to hide login
   info from CLI, and can also be used to simplify management of long arguments.

   .. note::

      Text file should separate arguments with line breaks.

   args.txt example::

      --login=MYUSERNAME
      --password=MYPASSWORD
      --fast-update
      profile1
      profile2

   .. versionadded:: 4.1
